# NAME

sbank balance - show slurm balance

# SYNOPSIS

sbank balance <subcommand> [OPTION]...

# DESCRIPTION

Show the balance of used and available hours to the user for a given
account. This is just a wrapper to the sbalance command, and is provided
to give the user/admin a consistent interface. If no options are given,
then sbank-balance will show the balance of the user who ran the script.

* statement - shows balance sheet statement for user.

  -h

  show help message

  -u

  show all users in the account (defaults to just the current user)

  -c

  display per cluster 'clustername' (defaults to the local cluster)

  -a

  display per account 'accountname' (defaults to all accounts of the
  current user; implies '-u')

  -A

  display display all accounts (defaults to all accounts of the
  current user; implies '-u')

* request - request a number hours from an account and returns a number
  of hours remaining in the account.

  -h

  show help message

  -c, --cluster

  Specify the slurm cluster

  -a, --account

  Specify the slurm account

  -t, --time

  Specify the amount of hours to deposit, can be negative in value
  if you wish to deduct hours from the account. This value must be an
  integer value.

# EXAMPLES

Show your own balance

	sbank balance statement

Show the balance of all users in your accounts

	sbank balance statement -u

Show the balance of all accounts in the cluster

	sbank balance statement -A -c mycluster

Request 'hours' from an account to see if there are enough hours available
to run a job.

	sbank request -c mycluster -a account0001 -t 1000

# SEE ALSO

* [[sbank]](1)
* [[sbank-deposit]](1)
* [[sbalance]](1)

# AUTHOR

Jimmy Tang <jtang@tchpc.tcd.ie>
